# Overview: Swift for Android Exploration (Skip.tools)

## 1. Inventory of Current Sample Apps
This is an overview of the current proof-of-concepts (PoCs) developed to validate Skip's functionality.

* **[Rent a car App Skip Lite]**
    * *Description:* This project uses Skip Lite to translate the business logic and UI to Kotlin. This means that all the code is getting transpiled to equivalent code in Kotlin. All the shared code is in the Sources folder. All the translated Android code is in the Android folder which you can open separately in Android Studio. There are no seperate screens for Android because all the Android code is automatically getting generated when building the code in Xcode.

## 2. Architecture: Shared vs. Platform-Specific Code
The projects uses the Skip transpiler to maintain a shared codebase.

* **Shared Code (Swift):**
    * Business logic and data models (ViewModels).
    * All SwiftUI views.
* **Android-Specific (Kotlin/Android Studio):**
    * Kotlin files generated by Skip.
    * Android Gradle build scripts (`build.gradle.kts`), `AndroidManifest.xml`, and Fastlane configurations (`Fastfile`, `Appfile`).

## 3. Build and Run Instructions
Instructions to build and run the app locally.

**For iOS:**
1.  Open the project in Xcode.
2.  Select the desired iOS simulator or physical device.
3.  Make sure an Android emulator is running, otherwise the build will fail.
4.  Press `Cmd + R` (Run) to build and start the application.

**For Android:**
1.  Make sure that you have built the source code in xcode at least once before you start.
2.  Open the `Android/` folder of the project in Android Studio.
3.  Allow Gradle to sync (this processes the Skip-generated Kotlin code).
4.  Select an Android Emulator or physical device and click 'Run' (`Shift + F10`).



## 4. Known Issues & Open Questions

**Known Issues:**
* The Android version barely works. Many screens don't open, functions of the app don't work and symbols are not showing. This shows that the Skip lite transpiler is not recommended for larger and more professional apps. However it is still possible to write your own UI in Android Studio but for the sake of my research i will not be doing that. This version exists just to compare to the Skip Fuse version.

**Open Questions for Reviewers:**
* []
